{{{
	"title" : "The revolution won't be peer reviewed",
	"tags": [ "blog" ],
	"category" : "announcement",
	"date" : "05-16-2014",
        "author": "Sebastien"
}}}

While the average blogger publishes [schema.org](http://schema.org)
compliant markup, while facebook and google are building [knowledge
graphs](http://www.google.com/insidesearch/features/search/knowledge.html),
we scientists are still mostly arguing about publishing narratives and
peer reviewing them.

Let's be clear, peer review alone won't send us to space (fast
enough). What we need is Star Trek, and we need it now.  Remember when
you first met [LCARS](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LCARS), the Library
Computer Access and Retrieval System. A lot of the pieces that we need
to get there are already here, standardized and open. More than 1 000
000 scientific concepts, ready to be understood by machines are
[here](http://bioportal.bioontology.org/annotator), floating an API
call away.  150 billion nucleotide bases from every single living
thing on earth are also [here](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/genbank/),
open, one API call away. But still, instead of building tools to
re-agregate all this invaluable content, we review other people meta
reviews. Can you find all the values ever published for the
transmission rate of influenza in one query? Today, you can't. Weird,
because at the same time you can
[find](https://www.google.com/search?q=ethiopian+restaurant) all the
Ethiopian restaurants nearby, all nicely re-aggregated (and reviewed)
in pretty google cards.

Let's be honest, peer review is not the problem and creating yet
another journal, open or not, is not the solution. Let's first build
simple things to start linking centuries of scientific human
discoveries.

Let's [annotate](http://www.openannotation.org/spec/core/) all of
science today, peer review and beyond.

PS: help us! [we](http://standardanalutics.io), take [pull
requests](https://github.com/standard-analytics) and are
[hiring](mailto:founders@standardanalytics.io).